.TH ecryptfs-recover-private 1 2010-12-17 ecryptfs-utils "eCryptfs"
.SH NAME
\fBecryptfs-recover-private\fP \- find and mount any encrypted private directories

.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBecryptfs-recover-private\fP [--rw] [encrypted private dir]

.SH DESCRIPTION
This utility is intended to help eCryptfs recover data from their encrypted home or encrypted private partitions.  It is useful to run this from a LiveISO or a recovery image.  It must run under \fBsudo\fP(8) or with root permission, in order to search the filesystem and perform the mounts.

The program can take a target encrypted directory on the command line.  If unspecified, the utility will search the entire system looking for encrypted private directories, as configured by \fBecryptfs-setup-private\fP(1).

If an encrypted directory and a \fIwrapped-passphrase\fP file are found, the user is prompted for the login (wrapping) passphrase, the keys are inserted into the keyring, and the data is decrypted and mounted.

If no \fIwrapped-passphrase\fP file is found, the user will be prompted for their mount passphrase.  This passphrase is typically 32 characters of [0-9a-f].  All users are prompted to urgently record this randomly generated passphrase when they first setup their encrypted private directory.

The destination mount of the decrypted data is a temporary directory, in the form of \fI/tmp/ecryptfs.XXXXXXXX\fP.

By default, the mount will be read-only.  To mount with read and write permission, add the --rw parameter.

.SH SEE ALSO
\fBecryptfs-setup-private\fP(1), \fBsudo\fP(8)

\fIhttp://blog.dustinkirkland.com/2009/03/mounting-your-encrypted-home-from.html\fP

.TP
\fIhttp://ecryptfs.org/\fP
.PD

.SH AUTHOR
This manpage was written by Dustin Kirkland <kirkland@ubuntu.com> for Ubuntu systems (but may be used by others).  Permission is granted to copy, distribute and/or modify this document under the terms of the GNU General Public License, Version 2 or any later version published by the Free Software Foundation.

On Debian and Ubuntu systems, the complete text of the GNU General Public License can be found in /usr/share/common-licenses/GPL.
