.TH umount.ecryptfs_private 1 "2008-07-21" ecryptfs-utils "eCryptfs"
.SH NAME
umount.ecryptfs_private \- eCryptfs private unmount helper.

.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBumount.ecryptfs_private\fP [\-f]

\fBNOTE:\fP This program will \fBnot\fP clear the relevant keys from the user's keyring.  For this reason, it is recommended that users use \fBecryptfs-umount-private\fP(1) instead!

.SH OPTIONS
Options available for the \fBumount.ecryptfs_private\fP command:
.TP
.B \-f
Force the unmount, ignoring the value of the mount counter in \fI/tmp/ecryptfs-USERNAME-Private\fP

.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBumount.ecryptfs_private\fP is a mount helper utility for non-root users to unmount a cryptographically mounted private directory, ~/Private.

If, and only if:
  - the private mount passphrase is in their kernel keyring, and
  - the current user owns both ~/.Private and ~/Private, and
  - ~/.Private is currently mounted on ~/Private
  - the mount counter is 0 (counter is ignored if \-f option is used)

This program will:
  - unmount ~/Private

The only setuid operationis in this program are the call to \fBumount\fP and updating \fB/etc/mtab\fP.

The system administrator can add the pam_ecryptfs.so module to the PAM stack and automatically perform the unmount on logout. See \fBpam_ecryptfs\fP(8).

.SH FILES
\fI~/.Private\fP - underlying directory containing encrypted data

\fI~/Private\fP - mountpoint containing decrypted data (when mounted)

\fI~/.ecryptfs/Private.sig\fP - file containing signature of mountpoint passphrase

\fI/tmp/ecryptfs-USERNAME-Private\fP - file containing the mount counter, incremented on each mount, decremented on each unmount

.SH SEE ALSO
.PD 0
.TP
\fBecryptfs\fP(7), \fBecryptfs-setup-private\fP(1), \fBkeyctl\fP(1), \fBmount\fP(8), \fBmount.ecryptfs_private\fP(1), \fBpam_ecryptfs\fP(8)

.TP
\fI/usr/share/doc/ecryptfs-utils/ecryptfs-faq.html\fP

.TP
\fIhttp://ecryptfs.org/\fP
.PD

.SH AUTHOR
This manpage and the \fBumount.ecryptfs_private\fP utility was written by Dustin Kirkland <kirkland@ubuntu.com> for Ubuntu systems (but may be used by others).  Permission is granted to copy, distribute and/or modify this document under the terms of the GNU General Public License, Version 2 or any later version published by the Free Software Foundation.

On Debian and Ubuntu systems, the complete text of the GNU General Public License can be found in /usr/share/common-licenses/GPL.
